This is Jacob podcast number 215 with echo Charles and me,
Jacob willing. Good evening, I go. Good evening.
I got a little quote, kick things off today.
The general who does not advance to seek glory or does not withdraw to avoid punishment,
but cares for only the people's security and promotes the people's interests
is the nation's treasure. That's a little son Sue coming at you.
And of course, we covered son Sue on podcast number 23.
And it's just always interesting how you can find the same themes
throughout time from a leadership perspective.
I know I talk about this point a lot in leadership strategy and tactics book.
This statement right here, this is 2500 years old.
And he's saying the same thing that I say in leadership strategy and tactics
that many of the problems that come about for a leader are from.
There you go. And so we have to learn to keep our ego in check. Now this is,
you know, we talk about it in extreme ownership, the very first book.
This isn't like, hey, I just thought of this yesterday. And it's not like I just thought of this
anyway. Like I said, somebody was jumping on somebody was making some comments on social media,
platform that he said, he's acting like me. I'm acting like I invented covered move.
I said, hey, no, it's actually, I say all the time, I didn't invent this or much of anything.
So I didn't invent this idea of ego. I didn't just think of it, whatever.
But it is a theme that we see over and over again from people that pay attention.
Not just from a leadership perspective either. I mean, no more talking life problems.
So this was interesting. So we just wrapped up the juggle live tour. It was awesome. Thanks for
the game. I got some really good questions along the way. And a lot of times,
the questions, sometimes the questions are about ego, even though the person doesn't even know
that the questions about ego, but when you start to dig in, you start to realize that it's about ego.
But the, so this first question is one of those questions. And the question was something
along the lines of this. It was something like, what should I do if a peer of mine is working hard,
putting an extra effort and trying to shine so that they get promoted? That was the question.
And that's a good question, right? Because right, what do you do? And the instinct is,
like you know what I'm saying? You can even feel that instinct. I could see it and look
on your face right now. Yes. You have the look on your face of like, you can see that that's a
little bit offensive, right? When you go, oh, this person's trying to, or,
or trying to put that extra effort and trying to shine so that they can get promoted.
Right. No one likes that person, by the way. Right. No one likes the brown noiser. So we get it.
So then the question was, what should this person do? What? You know, let's
to guy ask me, what do I do when that's happening? And the instinct, which is the instinct you
had, which is the instinct, my first instinct, even me, Mr. Keep your ego in check.
My very first instinct is like a little bit of like a pushback, like, oh, it's that guy. And I want
to lash out out, right? But that's not the right answer. You know, because, well, that's what you say,
you say, oh, they think they are. Yeah. Look at what they're doing. So, you know what that is? That's
making those attacks that's your own person legal. That's my own ego. My own ego going,
with that person just wants to get promoted. So, if you can take a second, you can take a step back,
you can detach, you can put your ego in check. And if you do that, then you say to yourself, okay,
here's what's, here's the situation. If we remove the ego, here's the situation. This person
is working extra hard. By the way, this person's appears. So, we're on the same team. This person
is working extra hard. They're putting in extra effort. They are trying to shine. And all those things,
all those things are actually good for your team. Right? I got someone that's trying to do a
great job that's working harder. I'm actually happy. I'm actually happy. If there's a person,
working harder, I'm actually, that's good. If there's a person that's trying to outwork me and
do a better job than me, that's actually awesome. Because now we're going to be a better team.
Now, mind you, any moment you let your ego slip into this, it turns into a nightmare. It's not
good. You don't like it. You're offended. That's someone's trying to work harder than you.
But if you keep your ego in check, then that's good. You realize that it's good. And I'll tell you
something else in this way. What I answered this question. I said, for this person,
to outwork me, he's going to have a hard time outwork me because I'm here to win too.
And that is a little bit of my ego. But that, that ego is being a positive thing. Because I'm,
oh, you're going to step up your game. Guess what I'm going to do? Step up my game. I'm not going
to undermine you. That would be negative. That would be my ego causing problem. But if I go,
oh, your, echo is stepping up his game. Echo showing up at at six o'clock in the morning,
instead of in set of six ten. Oh, and I'm, and I'm coming in at six. Oh, five. Guess what?
Guess what? I'm going to come in in tomorrow. No, for 30. But you're right. So I do, I do a little bit more.
So now, now we're both a little bit more prepared. Now we got some good competitive
and this going on. That's good. It's good for the team. So you, this other person, this other
person that's stepping up the game, trying to do a good job is actually awesome.
Because it's going to make me step up my game. And I'm going to tell you right now, that person
is going to have a hard time outworking me. They're going to have a hard time bringing it.
I'm actually fired up. I'm actually getting fired up right now. Like, I'm getting,
I'm, I'm starting to like, I'm thinking I might attack you right now just to see what's up.
You go. So that's good. Now here's, here's where the second
ego scenario that you have to get under control. What if that person steps up their game?
I step up my game. They end up they actually do end up outshining me. They actually do end up
getting the big promotion. Then what do I do? Do I get bitter? Do I get jealous? Do I get mad?
Do I now start to undermine them and spread rumors about now? Actually, if somebody, if somebody
outworked me and outperformed me and then got promoted, good for them, that is awesome. Credit.
They get a credit. You're done good, son. You're done good. And there's nothing wrong with that.
And what I am going to do is instead of being bitter and mad and jealous.
And all those things, instead of actually going to put my ego out of the picture and say what
actually happened, where did this person perform better than me? And how can I support them?
How can I learn some lessons from this and how can I become better? So the next time
there is an opportunity, I do get promoted. You wouldn't think that that question is about
your own personal ego. From the beginning. Now it's easy to see. Looking back.
Yeah. But from the beginning, it's like, hey, what do you do? How do you handle this situation?
When someone's trying to outwork you and outshine you and they're trying to get promoted?
Yeah. That sounds like an interpersonal relationship question. It's not. It's a question about ego.
Which is, which is something we always need to pay attention to. So as I was thinking again,
once again, Jockel live was kind of like, you went to two Jockel lives. Is that correct?
Yes. They weren't really a podcast. They weren't really a Q&A. They weren't really just sort of
a, they were a little bit of everything, right? A little bit of stories, a little bit of lessons,
a little bit of, yeah, a little bit of everything. So I did get some questions, though.
That first one was one of those general questions. And now, as I started thinking about the
questions and how a lot of them related to ego, another question that I got that was actually
another important question. The question was again, something along the lines of, and I'm
sure we can go back and, and pulled it recording. But here's the other thing. Is some of these
questions that I got asked? I got asked like the same similar questions. So I'm paraphrasing
what this other question was. But this one, the question was something along the lines of,
hey, listen, Jockel. I know that keeping the ego in check is important. Principal, I read about
an extreme ownership. You talk about it all the time. Got to be humble. But at my company,
ego is a huge problem. How do I get my company to start promoting the ideal of humility?
And how do I get them to recognize that ego is such a big problem? Now, this is a really good
question. Once again, because you can imagine what this individual is, right? Like, you know,
you're at a company where there's a lot of ego's going on. And all of a sudden, you have a little
moment of enlightenment. You realize that ego is causing you a lot of problems. So you start putting
your own ego in check. Have any of you go, wow, this is working. I'm doing better. I'm coordinating
better. I'm working in my interpersonal relationships with other people on the team are better.
My relationships with people on other teams are better. We're getting more done because our
relationships are better. I'm putting the team in the mission above myself. That means the
team in the mission are doing better. That's great. So you realize all this stuff. And then you say,
okay, well, how do I start to spread the word? How do I get other people to do this? And this is a
tricky question, right? It's a tricky thing because if some, if like, let's say your team has,
you see that ego is a problem and you sit them down and go, listen guys, you're all, you're all
got big ego's and that's the problem. I mean, you're going to run into level nine defensiveness.
You're actually going, it's actually going to be on defensiveness. They're going to start attacking you.
That's what's going to happen. You got all these crazy ego's. They're going to gang up. They're like,
unite. You know, put their ego aside for a split second. That can unite against you.
So you can't confront them. And once again, are there certain relationships that you could have
with someone where I go, let's say you and me and you had to be ego. But you and I were really
tightness at hey man, you're letting your ego get in the way of this. Sure, that kid that that is
a possibility. That is a very rare occurrence. Most of the people that you work with on regular basis,
you don't have that type of a relationship. The other thing is when someone has a big ego,
that's not the type of person that's open to those kind of criticisms anyways. So it's like there's
two hurdles that you have to overcome. Number one, your relationship isn't usually that good.
Number two, they have a big ego, which is part of the problem. And that's what makes the problem hard
to attack. So what are you going to do? That and I got to throw this one more little thing
when people talk about the, you know, I have someone say, put, wouldn't it be better if you
could just talk to? Wouldn't it be better if you just, you know, put down some bulletized
list and said, hey, here's the things that your ego, there's the problems that your goes from
causing. Look, I get it. And isn't it great to have direct conversations? Isn't it great if I
can just sit you down if echo, if you and I have this mind melt where you just know 100% looking
out for you and you're open to create. Like if we have that, that's in an ideal world, that's great.
That's great. Golfclap. It's great. The problem is it doesn't exist very often. And
confronting someone that has an ego about the ego can often just exacerbate the problem.
So here's what you do. Instead of self-identifying the problem and pointing the fingers at other
people, which by the way is placing blame, which is a problem. So instead of doing that,
what we're going to do is start pulling the thread on some of the problems that we're having
on the team. So for instance, this group over here needs some help on their part of the project,
but no one's helping them. What's going on? If you start to pull the thread on that, you'll find
at the end of that thread, they'll be hanging some egos. Whether it's the ego of the person that
doesn't want to ask help, or whether it's the ego of the other person that doesn't want to give
help because they think they need to do their own job. I'm not doing that. So you pull the thread
and at the end you'll find these little egos hanging and then what you do is you just expose.
And you say, what do you think the root of the problem is? You start pulling that thread and you get
to a point where someone says, you can finally have an open conversation. Where you say, where someone
finally says, we know I guess I guess I could use some help. You just discovered it. So that's like a
covering move situation, right? If a covering move isn't happening and it isn't happening because
of egos, if you pull the thread, you'll get to the end of the thread and it will be attached to
someone ego in most cases. Is there a possibility that it's like, hey, this group doesn't know
what the other groups don't? Yeah, absolutely. Those are, but those are easy problems to solve.
Because we can just pull the thread, we find at the end, oh, we need to, we need better coordination
between these two teams. Cool. There it is. When you pull the thread, it comes out the little
egos dangling on the end of it. Then you go, okay, let's expose these and let's try and ask
questions to figure out and get people to realize what they're looking at. You want them to come to
that conclusion. That's the trick. That's the maneuver. Is to get them to come to conclusion and
they might never verbalize it, but they go, yeah, in their mind, they're like, I guess I didn't want
to ask for help because my ego isn't the way. So there's one, you know, if you got people that
are taking on or keeping things simple, just go through the laws combat, simple, make people
making the plans to complex and yet they keep doing it. And when you go and say, you know,
these plans seem like they're really complex. And of course, they say something like, hey,
I don't think everyone understood the plan. It seems to seem kind of complex. And a person says,
people need to pay more attention when I'm briefing. And you pull on that, right? The front line
troops, they need more detail because they go, otherwise they're going to screw up. That's why
it's so complex. It's like, okay, let's look at what's really happening. What's really happening
is I've created a plan that I won't give up because my ego is too big. Right? When you pull that
thread and you go, listen to the front line troops, don't understand what to do. It seems like
that could be a real problem. And maybe, and this is nothing you give them a little out. You give
them a little out. Maybe we just need to back it off a little bit so that they can understand
it, maybe they're not as smart as you. You go, listen, you go, listen, you know what? Fine,
I'll simplify it. Boom. And in the meantime, you've given them a little indication, look,
if you confront them, that's what I'm saying. It's hard for people to want to play the long game here.
Because the short game is that you think you're so smart, you're playing to do complex and you're
sticking with them because you got a big ego. How's that going to work out? It's not going to
work out good. Can it work out 4% of the time? Yes. The other, the other, the other,
96% of the time, you get a defensive person that's now accusing other people. It's
take the indirect and play the long game. Take the indirect attack and play the long game.
Prioritize next Q. Why is that failing? Because again, this question is Ego's a problem.
So where does Ego manifest as a problem? It can manifest as a problem in
prioritized next Q. Because if someone's got a big ego and they're not getting things done,
they go, I can get it done. Because their ego thinks they can do anything, right?
Or prioritize Q. Ego can be a problem. If you have a project and I have a project and you need help
and your project is actually more important. I should give you resources, but instead of
like my initiative, just as important as Ego's is. Which is just my ego. I should look at it and
say, okay, you know what, you should be the priority. And another good one is, well, it's just what
I just said, but I'm not going to give up. Why should I have to give my resources to Ego? Those are mine.
Those are mine. No, actually, what's the biggest priority? Okay, put my ego aside. Ego's
priority is actually bigger than mine. I'm going to give him four of my people so that he can get the job done.
So when you pull the front on this and you say, well, hey, why is it Jocca? Why is it? You don't
want to give people to Ego? And I'm like, well, you know, what if something else comes up?
Well, something else comes up. You can get back. Well, you know, they got to learn to respect the
chain of command. Well, there's still work for you. They'll just be loaned over to Ego. Well,
you should understand? It's just ego, ego, ego, ego. So these are the kind of problems that
manifests themselves inside of a company wrapped around ego. And decentralized command, you can have
the same thing happen with decentralized command. How does ego cause a problem with decentralized
command? It's like this. Hey, I noticed that you know, you seem to be making all the decisions
and the folks out in the field don't really have the opportunity to kind of make calls.
Why is that on the only one that has the experience to do this?
They don't have the skill that I have. Right. So there's all these reasons that that's one of those
are ego problems. Right. And by the way, if it's not an ego problem, then I say, oh, you know what?
Cause I haven't really trained the guys well enough. And I'm going to, you know what, you're right.
I've been making way too many detailed decisions for the guys out in the field. I need to get down
there and make sure they know what's going on, train them better so that I can back off. Cool.
That's the person that's got the ego in check. The person that's like, I'm the only one that can
do this. Like, no, you can't get no, you're not. And if you are, you're wrong.
Because right now, you've got three people working for you. What happens when you have eight?
You're going to go around the field in all these different locations to make every single
decision. No, you can't. So get your ego under control. Realize that you're not the only one
that can do this job and train your people properly. Again, that's a direct assault. Probably
going to cause problems. Instead, if we just pull the thread on it, hey, what's going on?
It seems like you're, it's folks in the field don't have a lot of authority. Well, you know
that experience. Oh, okay. It's kind of cumbersome though. Like, then reaching back to you all the time
to make these decisions. It is, but you know, I'm the one that really knows how to do it.
I mean, what happens if, you know, if you're sick or, you know, someone's got to, you know,
have communications with them. Do you think it would be a good idea? You know, since you
have so much knowledge of experience to maybe pass that onto some of the other people?
Oh, yeah. Okay, cool. Let's make that happen. And then obviously, ego can absolutely
manifest itself when it comes to taking ownership. I mean, all day long, right? What, oh,
that project failed. What happened? My support. It's don't know. Don't want to step up.
Oh, because it's their fault. Why, why are your support in it's taking ownership?
Because they don't even know what ownership is. They don't want to take ownership. Okay.
So it's not your fault. No. Okay. Well, what can we do to help them?
Pull the string and you add the bottom. The person will see. It's the ego. They might not admit it,
but they'll see it. And then they can start to make adjustments. Now, look, can any of these situations
escalate in a point where indirect indirect indirect doesn't work? And eventually you say,
you know what? I got a, I got to sit echoed down and say, listen, here's what I think is the
root of the problem. The root of the problem is you think you're the only one that knows how to do this.
And in thinking that you're not training anybody like I might have to get that direct. It does
happen. We prefer to use the minimum force required when it comes to leadership, just like being a
balancer. Yes, sir. Right? It's not hey, the guys a little out of line, hate him in the head with a black
jack. No, it's like, hey, you're, hey, sir. You know, I think you've had enough for tonight.
Can you come with me? That's minimum force required. If the guy says, okay, cool. It's problem solved.
If he's, if he says, you're a muck going anywhere. Okay. Well, we have to escalate. It's the same thing
here, but don't start with the direct attack. Just like you don't club the person out of the gate.
I think it's a slap jack. I'm not sure. Okay. That's what you're talking about. That
little as they're thing. Yeah, a black jack. Yeah, black. Yeah. Right? It's a black. Did you guys
not use those? That's a think those are illegal. That's illegal. Yeah, the slap jack. Yeah. One guy had
one. Yeah. But yeah, they're illegal. So we don't want to escalate straight to the black jack.
Or even a slap jack. Even a slap jack. If anyone's using a slap jack. I think it's called a slap
jack. Okay. I'm not sure. Point remains. I dig it fairly confident you're wrong, but not 100%.
Yeah, I'm like, I'm like, you know, when someone, you know, when you're pretty confident about
something that somebody just throws a little randomness into the soup and it makes you question yourself.
Yeah. That's how I feel right now. Yeah. That's kind of real confident with a little bit of questions.
It makes you feel any better. That's my everyday life. So that's the answer to this question.
Is really pulling the thread on the problem to reveal the root of the problem, which you're
going to see as ego. And then it's there for the people. Hopefully to see it to recognize it,
to possibly admit it. Maybe not give them an out where they can actually make a adjustment without
taking the ownership of the ego because that's okay. We're trying to win, right? We're trying
to let the team win. We're not trying to, we're not, what my goal is not to make you admit it.
Because you know what that is? That's my ego. No, yeah. Let's show it. Yeah. It's got a big ego.
Get them to get them to admit it. That's not what my goal is. My goal is to make you make
better decisions as a leader so that we win as a team. Yeah. So that's what we're trying to do here.
It's really interesting that how you laid that out because you used to do that to me. Uh oh.
Probably still do. Maybe. But it was less about the ego I think anyway. Maybe it's all the same.
Maybe at the end of the day it's all the same. It's possible. Because skating or trying to
dance or writing or explaining to me how I would do this to you. You do with excuses. Okay. So like
if something didn't get done or can't get done or I think it's too hard and really most of the time
if I'm remembering correctly it was at the end of the day this is what it was. It was like,
I'm too lazy for whatever. You know, so it always be like this excuse like, well you know that's
to the answer. That's that. And then you'd have all these just like how you're saying and it made
me remember this because you're tone how you're like kind of saying those little answers there.
Ah, that's the same to me. Like, we're all simple. Just like, well just here. Here's the solution
to that problem right here. Because there's all these little excuses that you make. You know like,
oh, I didn't really have time because I had to do this and you'd be like, okay, then you just do this.
You know, and that'll solve that particular problem. You didn't have this big comprehensive plan to
solve in my life problem. You're like, okay, for every excuse I would make, you just have the little
solve, you know, the problem or the solution to it. And I'd be like, man, and meanwhile you're
getting back into this corner or the string is just getting pulled like, with every pull you start
to sense or stop it. In your case, it was lazy. Oh yeah, like I just was too lazy or I'm just like stuck
in this routine or whatever. And then it's so it could in a way be like, okay, that's just my
ego just thinking that the way that's not the way I do things kind of thing. And think if I were to
use the different tone, think if I would have just said, that's could you're lazy. Oh yeah,
yeah, you just being lazy, echo. You'd have been like, you even know what it takes to make one of these
things. Oh, you know what I mean? Yeah. And then all of a sudden we, and what does that do to our
relationship? Yeah. And what does that do to to do that final product? Yeah. Right now you're doing
something against your will. Oh, yeah. Oh, just staying a little bit. Staying on it. Yeah,
fully. And yeah, if you would have just been like, hey, you're lazy, this is what my mind would have
went to this belief. This actually, and in a way, it's true, but it doesn't like get anyone anywhere,
where if you would be like, you're lazy, I would have thought and maybe even said that it's not
that I'm lazy. It's just you're just this crazy hard worker who have these standards that are
unreasonable for a normal person. And I'm just a normal person, excuse me, you know, kind of an attitude.
That's what I would go to rather than if you like the way how you always do it is like you pull
the string or you just sort of, you know what's interesting too is when I'm doing that,
I'm not doing that like, okay, I got the, here's my next move on echo. Yeah. Actually what I'm doing
is like, whoa, you know, you say, well, we can't, I can't make a video because it's going to take
me too long to get through the raw edits. And I go, you know, I'll say like, well, you know,
if you want, just get, you know, hire someone to do those raw edits for you. Right.
And would that work? Yeah. You know what I mean? I mean, I'll ask you a legitimate question. Oh,
yeah. Maybe I kind of know the answer. I mean, I suspect I know the answer, but it's not,
it's not just, hey, I'm setting you up. I'm legitimately pulling the thread. And the answer might
be it is impossible to get this project done. But when I say, well, you could hire someone to do
those raw edits. And then you go, okay, well, even if I hire someone, how am I going to transfer
all this data? And I go, well, if you want, what couldn't you get an external hard drive and just
physically give it to him? And you'd say, well, these are actual situations. No, I don't know.
I just, I don't know the realm of video well enough to go down those roads. The main, the one that
I remember the easiest is like with training. Like, it'll be, hey, we're training at 430,
but I train during the day, almost, oh, not in the evening. Then you'll be like, oh, yeah,
training at 430, I'm like, well, you know, and I have all these reasons. And then you're like,
you kind of just chip away at all these reasons. Like, oh, here's the solution to that. Here's
the solution to that. Here's the solution. It's like, man, I just, I just, like, my routine. I just
got to admit it, you know, like, all right. But I don't get to train with you guys this often,
you know, kind of thing. But it's like, yeah, you expose, you pull the string to expose just,
like the little, the little excuses. Sure. So, pull the thread, reveal the problem. Don't
confront if you can help it. And people will start to recognize what the problem is. I mean,
this is assuming you're working with this, well, there's one problem with this. And that is,
if the person has a giant ego, this is the hardest thing for them to admit, right? So they might not
admit it. But they'll see it. They'll behave differently. And by the way, one of the good ways to
to use someone's ego against themselves is when you say something along the lines of, you know,
man, it's going to look good if this gets done right. You know what I'm saying? And they think,
oh, cool. I'm going to do this. I'm going to make this adjustment just so it gets done, just so
my ego can get just so I can win. Yeah, that doesn't say that. Use the word win. Because every time
like, use the word win. And anytime, what I'd be thinking, like, okay, if I didn't win, what's left,
you lost? Yeah. No matter what excuse you make you lost. So if you put shed light on, like, use that
word and be like, hey, this will make you win. And you're like, hell, yeah. But at the same time,
the back of my mind, like, basically, if we don't solve these problems or whatever, I lose,
I don't want that. So it's like, extra motivated. It's the winning at all costs thing. And so the
winning at all costs, I wrote like a little section. And it was a part of a one of the special releases
on Barnes and Noble's version of that caught a minute of leadership was this thing, winning at all costs.
And it's, and then someone posted, and I had, I had said it before, right? And someone posted a
clip of me saying this idea of winning at all costs. And it's the way that I talk about it.
It's kind of a trick anyways, because I go through this thing about what is leadership and
a leadership is this leadership that, and then I said, what leadership is to me is winning at all costs.
And somebody put, I'm probably you put a clip up of me saying that. And somebody said,
of course, someone's like, that's the kind of person that will run people over in a bubble
or more. Like, like, gave it negative things, right? But what they don't realize is what the
rest of that clip says. And what the rest of that whole idea of winning at all costs is what
I'll do to win at all costs is totally subordinate. My ego help other people support them,
give them what they need and put my put, put the team and the mission above myself, because
the, that's how I'm going to win at all costs. So winning at all costs doesn't mean I'm stepping
on other people. I mean, it's actually lifting other people up. That's what it means. So if you can
use that, you know, if I say, hey, I go, man, look, we need to win. And if we're going to win,
the only way to win is if you can learn how to work with Jim, otherwise we lose. And you're
like, you know what? Because I'm a winner all work with Jim. And cool, it's a first step.
Yeah. Yeah. And this was kind of related to a question that we haven't done a Q&A in a
long time. And this is kind of a partial Q&A. Sure. I don't know. It's just some topics.
But anyways, we got one of these questions hit it. Yes, Jocco, what do you tell someone who has
been passed over for a military promotion? They deserved. Could you address this?
Yeah. So part of it is what we just talked about. What do you do when you get passed over? Cool.
Why did so? And it's also covered in, I think there's a, well, I know, there's a literal chapter
inside leadership strategy and tactics, which is what to do when you're, when you don't get promoted.
That's that's the actual name of the chapter. When you're not chosen, page 160, boom, there it is.
When you are not chosen, and we covered it on the podcast. So what you do is you go and you say,
boss, I know there's opportunities to get promoted. I know I didn't get promoted. I know there
must be some shortfalls that I have. Can you help me indicate what those shortfalls are? Cool.
So that's, and I'll just give a factual. There's the officer commissioning program that I got picked
up for. It was called the Seaman 2 Admiral program. It was a highly selective program. They took
50 sailors from the entire Navy. And there's, I don't know, 250,000 something people say was in the
Navy. They took 50. And the first year that I put in for it, I did not get selected. I got actually
I got selected as an alternate, which was as they say, almost worse. Yeah, let's see it.
Because you don't, you don't, you get nothing. You get the smell it. Yeah, you get the smell it. You
don't get the touch. You don't get to taste it. So it was not good. Well, it was good. Because I was like,
okay, I'm close. But, but I didn't get it. I didn't get it. And what did I do?
Assessed. And said, what can I do better? And work harder. And the next year, I got it. So if you
don't get promoted, because you deserved it, maybe you didn't deserve it. And if you did deserve it,
you'll get it next time. And instead of saying you deserved it, why not look at it and say,
okay, what did I not do to make myself the best absolute best candidate that they could not
question needed to get this promotion? Instead, we're saying I deserved it. Someone else got,
what is that doing? Blaming the boss blade in the selection process, blaming all these other
things that you cannot control. But if you take ownership of it and say, you know what?
Okay, I didn't get promoted. There must be some things that I can do better.
There's the answer. Own it. Ask, give me some feedback, please. What do I need to make this happen?
And then implement. Now, this, this, there was this other topic that I kind of wanted to
bring up. That was from, once again, it was from Jockel Live. And there was a young woman.
And again, this, this goes to the kind of variety of different people that were coming to the
Jockel Lives were all over the place. So this, this young woman asked a question that was kind of like,
how do you, and I can't, when you're at the live events, there's light shining in your eyes.
So you're not really 100% sure. You don't get it. It's not like that, you're not seeing the
person face to face. So I'm kind of looking out into the light. I'm seeing this frame of a young woman.
And she asked something along the lines of, you know, how do you handle when there's people
that are trying to pull you down and, and, and, you know, pick you apart.
And I said, well, what do you do? And she's like, I'm in school. And I said, what school?
And she said, high school. And I said, what grade? And she said, I'm a freshman.
And I said, okay, so you're getting bullied. But because essentially, that's what that's what you
was saying, right? I'm getting picked on. I got people trying to drag me down. What you know what that's
called, that's called bullying. I said, so you're getting bullied. And she said, yes, getting bullied.
So I said, I said, you know, I thought about it for a second. I said, well, I've got some
bad news. And I've got some good news. And I'm going to start with the bad news. The bad news is that
people can be mean. And they can be mean for a variety of reasons. They can be mean
because they're insecure. They can be mean because they're bullied themselves. They can be mean
because they're unhappy. They can be mean because they're scared to be vulnerable. So they put up that front.
But they might be suffering and jealous and have no self-esteem. It's the way some people are.
And there's some people that are just evil that get joy out of putting other people down. So there's
all those kind of people exist. And they especially exist inside of immature people in high school.
So that's the bad news. And then I said, but the good news is high school is not life.
And when I said that, it was actually funny when I said that people started clapping because
everyone in that room knew that it was true. And that reminded me of another
conversation that I've been having with people lately about
about ecosystems, something I've called ecosystems. So little ecosystems in the world that people
get caught up in. And they get caught trying to get to the top hierarchy of some little ecosystem
somewhere. And look, I get it. Jordan Peterson, we're trying to ascend the top of our
dominance hierarchy. Be the best you can. I totally get that. Absolutely. But there can be a problem
with this. From multiple angles. The world is filled with these little ecosystems. And high school is
one of them. Remember the little high school ecosystem. There's someone that's popular. There's all
these little eat. There's this ecosystem there. And high school, this is something. You look at
high school kid and you try and explain to them that once you left high school, no one really cares.
Right. Correct. If you care about it, deeply, you're actually on Carico. Right? If you're the one
that's running around saying, when I was in high school this, when I was in high school that,
but here's the problem. And this is one of the reasons when I wrote, way the warrior kid,
the first one. One of the things that triggered me to write it was, you know, here I was at work,
war going on, big real legitimate crazy problems and dynasties and dynamics to figure out.
Things are going on. And I'd come home and like one of my kids would be sad that they got called
the name or sad that they got a low grade or an attest or whatever. And I would be thinking,
like I had a moment of clarity where I thought I can't believe they're sad about this, who cares?
And then I realized, oh yeah, idiot, Jocco. That thing that's going on in their world is their
whole world. It's the ego. See, it's their entire world is in that one ecosystem. So
it's hard for people to realize that their ecosystem that they're in is not the whole world.
It's the same thing when you start getting a college and I've got two kids in college now.
This whole ecosystem around first getting into college and once you get to college,
where you're going to get your MBA, where you're doing your internship, this is whole thing.
And once again, if you step outside that ecosystem into just the normal world,
no one actually cares about where you got your degree. Not no one, because there's a little
people inside that ecosystem that they go, where do you get your MBA? Oh, where do you study?
And there's people that care about that. There's other people that literally do not care at all.
And I'm incredibly, like from that perspective, I'm incredibly successful business leaders all the time,
that don't have their MBA and went to some state school in Iowa. I got props the other day
from someone from Iowa and it said, whenever you think of that state, I'm like, yes, from Iowa,
some state school and whatever, some little community college in Nebraska and they go out and
world and dominate. So, but that's not important. We know that that happens.
Look, and there's people that go to Ivy League schools and they do great too.
But what I'm saying is they get into this little ecosystem where where what they're actually
trying to do is climb to the top of that ecosystem only for the sake of climbing to the top of
that ecosystem, not how it measures into the greater world. Well, kind of card you have.
There's an ecosystem you can get wrapped up in. You know, I've got my Porsche's better than your Porsche.
Right? There's people that are into that. And there's other people that I do not care at all at all.
What about our little ecosystems? We're in it. Right? Would you just do has a little
little ecosystem? You know what I'm saying? There's a little ecosystem who's who? The podcast world.
Has an ecosystem. So all these, then those are just things that that you and I are actually
actively in, right? We do get to and we have a podcast. So we could jump into like where you
add on the hierarchy of these ecosystems. And again, Jordan, I get it. We're trying to, we're trying to
go up the hierarchy. I get it. But you have to be able to put that in check. Because why are you doing that?
What is driving you? If it's, if what's driving you to ascend that hierarchy is because it's going to
make you better and the people around you better, that's good. If you're doing it for your own
ego, though, that's a problem. That's where it becomes a problem. The, guess what? The jobs,
the companies, the industries, they get created. They're sort of the jobs that get created by
companies and industries. They have their own little ecosystem, right? About I work here, I work there,
I will. I ran this region like you can see it. It's an ecosystem that exists. The seal teams
is a freaking ecosystem. And everyone's in there going, you're like, okay, where are you at on the
ecosystem? Where do we know? How many deployments have you done? Where did you deploy? Do. When
what schools have you been to? There's a little ecosystem that people are trying to get up and it's
and I get it. There's some positive to that, right? Because you're trying to do better, trying to work
harder. That's good. Then there's, there's things, the bar scene. You probably can relate to this
better than me. There's an ecosystem of the clubs. Yes. And who's the owner and who's the manager
and who's the GM and who's the head door guy and who comes in here club. Oh, who are you going to
let in the club? Music scene, real estate. There's this ecosystems everywhere. And so this is the point
that I guess I'm getting to and when ties back into this young female that asks this question.
When you have to do is realize that in most of these cases, when you step outside of that little
ecosystem, no one cares about that ecosystem. No one cares. No one cares. If I was to tell my mom,
hey mom, I got my black belt in GJ2 2005. Hey mom, I got my black belt in GJ2.
What would you say? Congratulations. No one's thinking that I'm going to strip
mall doing karate somewhere. You know what I mean? That's what she's thinking. She doesn't care
at all. She doesn't care at all. Your Porsche that you told me about, I can introduce you to many
people that think if you spent more than $5,000 on a vehicle, you're an idiot. Never mind,
$150,000. In fact, if you ever hear me brag about a vehicle, the vehicle that I brag about,
probably the most is my 1997 Dodge Grand Carver. That's the one I brag about the most.
So when you step outside the ecosystem of cool cars, people literally don't do not care.
The music scene. Oh, I know this recording artist. I know, oh, I'm going to this studio. It's like,
no one cares. So my point in saying this is if you find yourself distraught about your failure
inside some random ecosystem, then remember that if you can detach and you can step outside
that ecosystem, you can realize that that ecosystem, in most cases doesn't even matter at all. It doesn't matter
at all. Detach. This is something that once again at Jockel Live shows this came up here. We
talk about detachment. I talk about detachment or one of the things. Look, detachment is a great tool
as a leader to have because it allows you to take a step back and see what's going on. Clearly,
it's a powerful tool. But you combine that aspect of detachment to this other aspect of detachment
when we've talked about people that get caught in a bad mental headspace and I don't know if I
want to use the word depression because I'm not a psychologist and I've never really had this depression.
So I can't really speak about it from that angle. But to say that people get caught in a rut,
that happens. And I've talked about that idea. Like let's say, okay, when if you lose someone,
right, someone that you know dies and you get put into that rut. And the way I've described it before
is like there's a storm cloud all around your head. And no matter which direction you look, you see
storm cloud. And anyone that's on the outside and this is what I've said, anyone that's on the outside,
look, you go, oh man, you're just surrounded by the storm. If you step over here, you're going to
get away from that. There's a light at the end of the tunnel. But from there perspective, they don't see it at
all. If you can detach, if you can take a step back from your own head, you can actually see
the end of the storm clouds and you can see that you can get your way out of this rut that you're in.
Now people ask me about how to detach. And I talk about it leadership strategy and tactics,
but I'm going to take a little bit further. Think about this. So here's a couple of things. And
actually the reason that I I used to kind of look at it, like hey, it's real simple, right?
Hey, take a step back. Just take a step back, take a breath, right? You know, look around.
And in fact, relax, look around and make a call was what I wrote about extreme ownership when it
comes to detach. Like relax, look around, make a call. That's detachment. The first time I really
broke it down to try and give people some more specific instructions was on the warrior kid podcast.
Because you know, a little kid would say, when I get mad, I start to lose my temper. When I'm
wrestling or I start to lose my temper. When I'm in class and little Billy's keeps poking me
in the back of the head. How do I not lose my temper? Well, what they need to do is detach. So
I said, listen, take a step back. So I thought about what I kind of do. Take a step back.
And one of the things I said was lift your chin up. Lift your chin up. And now when you start to think,
I thought about, why do I even do that? What benefit does that have? Well, if you think about
when you take a step back and you actually lift up your chin, think about what it does to your
vision. All of a sudden, your vision is elevated. It's elevated one inch, but it's elevated. And you
now have a physical new perspective. You have a physically new perspective of what's going on.
If I take in a step back, lifting your chin up. The other thing it makes you do is if you put your
head back, it like makes you open up your chest and open up your lungs and it makes you take a breath.
Which I used to attribute this to when you're on the radio. Look, one of the reasons that I was
that I like thought about detaching and something that I got realized was a good tool is you never
want to sound panicked on the radio and the sealed teams. So before you key up that microphone
to say something, you go when you say, all right, guys, we need to move towards that north building.
Instead of, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't do that.
So when you lift your chin up, you, you know, you kind of take a breath. It forces you to kind of take a breath.
And the other, this is the coolest thing that I kind of connected this.
Mm-hmm. At Jockel Live. And the reason I connected it because I was up like right now, we're
sitting down and we're kind of, we're kind of stuck in this position. So at Jockel Live, I had
like a, like a, a lava layer microphone on. It's all up and moving around and getting crazy.
So as I was going through this, I was acting out the, the process of detaching. So I take a step
back, I lift up my chin and I made this connection. I was like, think about the posture that you have
when you're getting ready to get into a fight. It's literally the opposite. You lift up your hands,
you duck, you tuck your chin down, you roll your shoulders forward to protect yourself,
and you are getting in this defensive posture, which is not an open posture for seeing what's going on.
Right? It's a focused posture. When you take a step back, you lift up your chin. You're actually
making yourself physically vulnerable. And what you're also doing is here. So you're opening
yourself up the threats, but you're opening up your mind to see a different perspective. So
that is incredibly important. It's an incredibly important first step in training yourself,
how to detach from all this chaos that's going on from the mayhem of the leadership situation,
to detaching from your own ecosystem that you're wrapped up in that you think is important.
That no one cares about. No one cares about outside that stupid club you're in. No one cares.
No one cares. Outside the, the, the, the, the 38 people that are involved in your
glee club that they've got you paranoid and freaking out no one cares. So if you can take a step back
and you can see that and finally, if you can take a step back from your own brain and you can kind of
assess that cloud that you're caught in. You'll see that that cloud is not infinite and you'll see that
there's a way out, which is important. Very important. Yeah, that, that, and that can get more
strong and powerful that that lure that suck in like keeping you in your ecosystem one. It's like
part of your routine, you know, because it kind of feeds into your identity a lot of times like
in your gits is super strong like where you, you know, if you get tapped out by a guy who never
taps you out of some breath. That'll follow you all the way home with your fat and you know,
your family you're thinking man, they can tap me out today. Like you can, you know,
it's going to be a line that's just sucked in because it's kind of part of your identity,
whatever, but yeah, if you can just step back, look around, kind of detach from that,
you're like, Brad, no one cares like every literally every other environment that you go in in life,
nobody cares like I tap. No one cares that you even do gits. No one cares that you got a
spring interaction at the store. Yeah, and what was that? This would just work magic.
This is an ninja. You put that to sleep. Exactly. Which is probably never going to happen
by the way, as far as probability goes. I think, and I think when you're younger, I mean,
obviously when you're younger, you get you get caught up in the ecosystem. Oh, it's more.
And this what's scary is this can be the downfall of a kid, right? You get caught up in the drug
ecosystem. You get caught up in the booze ecosystem. You get caught up in the in the
one is it delinquency. Like, hey, I'm going to cause problem. Hey, you know what do boys do?
Boy, this is another thing that came out of jockel life. Like, boys are trying to prove themselves
to their friends and to themselves. How tough they are, how cool they are. So whenever
whatever little ecosystem has their own little cool meters in it, right? And sometimes that
cool meter is, you know, I'm getting so I'm going to drink this fifth jack. Yeah.
Or I'm going to smoke this or whatever. Like, that's they want to move up in that ecosystem.
And so they do stuff that outside, outside that ecosystem, people are, hey, that's actually one of
the dumbest things I've ever heard. Yeah. But you can't see that. Yeah, the party scene is a big one.
I mean, there's a difference between like getting caught in the ecosystem of the party scene and then
going down the spiral of drugs and addiction. A lot of time, the addiction is like, that's just like
a chemical payoff you get. And then that chemical payoff you want so much. It's just more of a payoff
than literally anything else in life and then it just compounds. But it's the ecosystem that
introduces you to the payoff that ends up being an addiction that ends up ruining your life.
Yes. So, yeah. Like, the party scene, for example, it's like, yeah, okay,
did you go to this party? Oh, you didn't go to there. You're kind of less than kind of thing.
You know, oh, I'm at all the parties. You're the kind of up there in that little ecosystem.
Then you go to those parties and you got a function at the party. Right. So you can just go to the
party. Like, no, I'm not drinking. And one of them, you're like, oh, you're not feeding in the
party at all. So you're going to fit in. So you're going to do the, you know, you're obviously going to
drink and then what if they're doing some some other drugs in the back room, the cool room, the
VIP room, the secret room or whatever. If you're not part of that, you're sort of like, yeah, you're the
minion. You're not one of the VIPs. You're one of the VIPs. You're going to function there.
There's a whole peer pressure thing wrapped up inside the ecosystem. Oh, yeah. That's like the
primary driver of the ecosystem. Oh, yeah. Because even the positive things like, oh, where you get,
where you, where you're getting your MBA? Yeah. Like, so like, got all these 18, well,
no, 19, whatever, 20, 21 year old college kids are like, where you're going to get your MBA?
Where you're going to get your MBA? Where you're flying? Where you're flying? Where you're flying?
Oh, yeah. And if you're not applying to the whatever, then you're a little bit down on the
ecosystem. And you know what? No one cares. Well, I can't say no one cares. Because there are
people that are going, hey, we want to get someone from this school. Cool. Fine. That's a little tiny
subset of the same ecosystem. Yeah. And but if you're talking about like, yeah, if you're talking
about people outside the ecosystem, no, they don't care. They don't care if you're capable. And then
so a lot of times, if you're like, oh, you got MBA from here. Okay, that's an established kid,
you know, capable. They're going to put out some good students or some good trained people,
whatever, then there's that. But it's not like, they don't care about what you care about right now.
You know, the fact that you got it from here doesn't mean you're like awesome. The thing that's so
hard for kids is they just can't see outside the ecosystem is their world. Yeah. And so
introducing people to this concept that there are in fact, the random ecosystems that actually
no one cares about is a positive thing. Yeah. Don't get caught up in them. Yeah. Don't keep caught
on the trend. Yeah. Especially not negative ones. But yeah, what there's also people take positive
ecosystems and turn them negative because they start getting the ego involved. Like,
like, that's the right. Jiu-Jitsu is totally positive ecosystem. Hey, we're just here to train. We're
here to have fun. And normal son, it turns into drama. As we haven't talked too much about the
Jiu-Jitsu drama. And I, but you honest with you, one of the reasons that we don't talk a lot about the
Jiu-Jitsu drama is probably because we don't deal with it a lot because we have a very open door
policy at our gym. And we're just kind of cool. And we just want to train Jiu-Jitsu and
want everyone else to train Jiu-Jitsu. And I think San Diego at large is a very similar to that
because they're just Jiu-Jitsu everywhere. So we all just kind of know each other. And so I think that
has something to do with it. And I also think there's less Jiu-Jitsu drama now than there was 10 years ago.
Yeah, for sure. You know, 10 years ago is like, that's my student. You went to my other. You went
to someone else's academy. Cool. You're out of my academy forever. I banish you.
That was that kind of drama. Is there still that kind of drama? They're probably as some,
but not as bad as it used to be. But they took a positive ecosystem and turned it into negative
ecosystem. Yeah. Yeah, I would imagine that's kind of everything. Like even, okay, so my nephew
gets good grades. Really good grades. But he takes it, you know how like certain students,
they take their grades like super-series. They get one bag or their late for school. Like,
proud of it. If to me, if let's say my mom brought me to school.
But if you have to explain to me that you weren't worried about being late when you were 10,
it's unnecessary. You're going wildly unnecessary for them. For the people,
we'll let you explain how much you didn't care about leaving late even as a child. Go out.
Especially for school. But in this way, if I was late, had to get a tardy slip.
Brother, the connection between that and like grades and success in life was literally nonexistent.
Brother, yeah. So in this way, it looks like the boss was late on. I would say,
maybe that's how you ended up showing up late all the time. But God did it possible. Did you?
Very possible. So if my parents were my mom or dad or whatever, if they were driving me to school,
and they were running late? Well, I mean, me caring was literally at a zero. I didn't care at all.
And that goes like, cool. I don't have to spend as much time at school. And not that I was bad at school or anything.
I'm just saying like, right. I didn't care about that stuff at all. Anyway, my point is,
some people are in the opposite. Some people were like, I can be late for school. It's like school is like everything in their grades.
And stuff like that. That's positive. That's really good. Actually,
but it can get out of hand. It's a thing. It's got to hand. Where you get kids freaking. You get kids cheating.
Cheating, freaking out. Freaking out. Freaking out.
Now, taking weird drugs to like study like a lot of whatever. Yeah. All those things. All those things are bad.
And all of them are related to the fact that they think that that ecosystem is the whole world.
Everything. And let's be honest. I mean, how much of that ecosystem affect you? You didn't even show up at school.
What do you want me homework? You seem to be doing all right?
I'm not even. Well, now you're here kicking the podcast ecosystem. Echo Jaws.
Oh, yeah. So everyone should do that. Right. No, man. Yeah, crazy. Yeah, I think if if you take
and not not that I'm like the epitome of or the poster child for great parenting advice,
nothing like this, but I think like the more you take your kids and see other stuff outside of school.
Kind of their mind is going to not just be attached to like the school scenario. You know? Well, that's a whole
debate, you know, that you could have like, but here's a real simple question.
Is your kid, if your kid goes, is your kid 10 years old, they're in fifth grade.
And they don't want to miss school. So they don't go with you to,
call it, whatever, cry. They don't go experience something. Like, yeah, that I guarantee you that the
experience in Kauai is way more beneficial, educationally, spiritually,
athletically, then hey, they missed three days of math. Yeah, bring the math book.
Bring it. Yeah, for sure. And that's just Kauai either. Like, you know, I mean, even just going to
see what you do at work or whatever, like I just take my kid to, you know, going training sites.
Are you kidding me? Best thing ever. Oh, yeah. And I'm not even necessarily saying have a
miss school to see this stuff. I'm not necessarily saying that. But I'm just saying like,
everything isn't like, okay, go home, do homework. And it's like everything. If you
create this idea that school is everything in their head, then, you know, it's, they're going to
tend to think that I think. But, you know, if you see, you know, let them see other places where you
work or whatever, whether you're in the weekends or summertime or whatever, you know, see just the
other things that it realized, okay, school isn't everything, you know. And what you're really showing
them is this is one ecosystem in the world. It's called school. It's an important one, but there's
no reason to get crazy. There's other ecosystems out there that are also cool and good.
All right, keep detached. Don't get stuck in ecosystems. All right, next question. I am stuck in a
prolonged period of things not going my way professionally or socially. All that really is going on.
Well, is my time management still, even after having owned up to my part in getting here,
I still seem stuck in a failure loop. Okay, so, what's being addressed here is
the prolonged period of things not going away. And we know that a key part of getting out of a
rut like this or a failure loop is taking ownership of those failures of those problems.
That's very important. But guess what? That alone doesn't solve them at all.
Just saying I didn't get promoted. Okay, it was my fault. Period. That doesn't solve the fact that you didn't
get promoted. I'm not getting called back to do this other contracting job. It's my fault.
Does that mean you get called back? No, it doesn't mean anything.
Taking ownership means that you actually have to identify the problem. You know your
responsible for it. And then you actually have to solve the problem. That's what you have to do.
Just taking ownership of the problem doesn't make it go away. If you take ownership of the
problem, you have to take ownership of finding a solution. And then you have to take ownership
of implementing that solution. So this is real straightforward. Now, there's one little tiny part
that I want to point out, which you may or may not have noticed echo Charles and I'm going to point it out.
So pay attention to this last sentence in the question. Still, even after having owned up to
my part in getting here, I still seem stuck in a failure. Failure loop. What you noticed about
that echo Charles? As if there's another part of all of the part, maybe even parts.
Right, there's multiple facets of the world that are conspiring to keep you in this failure loop.
Yeah, it's like that tone of when someone's like, hey, I did my part. I did my job hands-up,
you know, kind of thing. I did my job. That's not my job. The other parts that are more implied,
I guess, now that you kind of uncover in the world. It's like there's this other job that someone
else is sort of part. So this is the thing. And this is what this is what makes this very challenging.
Is this idea that like, but how could I possibly control this or that? How can I possibly
take ownership of the fact now? This is a weak one. How can I possibly take ownership of the fact
that my boss is an idiot and fired me? How can that be my fault? That he didn't see how good I was,
right? Okay, we see what's going on there. You obviously aren't being introspective and taking a
look and saying, okay, this is obviously my fault. Here's what I need to change. So there's things
like that where you go, look, you're just not, it was same thing with relationships, right? She broke
up with me. How can I own that? Well, maybe you look at yourself and you see how you acted as a
partner in that relationship. And if you just want to look at that person, say it was her fault,
she was crazy. And it was her fault, she didn't understand how awesome I was. That's not, that you,
you need to take ownership of your own behavior. Why did she think that? Now you do get to these
things where you have no control. So got asked a question, a guy said, my, I lost my girlfriend to
you, opiate overdose, did she died? How do I take ownership of that? And so I expanded that
question because that's one of those things where you look at, you know, when you look at,
you go, how can you take ownership of that? This person did so much drugs and it wasn't like,
like, okay, I don't know the specifics of the situation, but if you know, I'm doing everything
I can to help my girlfriend and then one day I come home and she's, oh, deed, she's dead.
Okay, how can I say, I wasn't even there, right? And I, let's just say, I've done everything,
take her to rehab, not all this stuff. And as far as I could tell, she was clean and behind my
back without telling me, at least she did this, right? So it's almost like, okay, that's as much
separation as I can get. How do you take ownership of a situation like that? And so it
here's what I went on to say to this guy. I said this might seem like a unique situation, but it's
not because there's things that occur in our lives that we actually don't have any control over.
For instance, most horrible, you, your family member, someone, you know, gets cancer, gets a
horrible, terminal disease. How do you take ownership of that? And the answer is, in these cases,
when things that are truly beyond your control occur, what you take ownership of is how you respond to them.
That's, that's what you take ownership. How do you respond to, you lose your girlfriend to drugs,
your kid gets cancer, you get cancer, something, you get this horrible disease. How do you respond to that?
That's what you can take ownership of. And that's what you have to take ownership of.
So I get, as my point in saying that is, yes, there are absolutely things that you cannot control
and what you can control is your reaction to them when they unfold. That makes sense. What scares me
about this guy is he's saying he's owned up to his part, but that means he's blaming someone else.
And I can, the amount of things that we have is zero control over is a very small. So many things
if we look at ourselves and say, what could I do better, what could I do different? How can I make an adjustment here?
How can I adapt to the way this boss is? How can I adapt to the way this girl is that I'm trying to have
relationship and then by the way, that might not be the best relationship. Maybe that's part of what you need to do.
This take ownership of the fact that you're addicted to this, this is what he's saying. This guy
here saying he's so social, some of his, some of his got some problems with his
female friends, right? Or friends in general. Hey, do you want to want to come watch UFC?
Oh, not really. I'm buying guys. That's okay. We're going to go to, you know,
oh, is there a watch that by myself? I can't believe that. You know, what's wrong with everyone else?
No, actually, what's wrong with me? Now truth be told. I don't want to watch UFC with anybody else,
generally. I just want to sit alone and watch the fight. No commentary. No questions.
I asked me a question. Sure. What was that move? No. I'm watching the fight.
That's interesting. Everyone just be quiet. A lot of times, some of us, we like to demonstrate our
professional knowledge of the subject, you know? So answer here. You need to look at the reason
that you're probably stuck in this loop continually is because the things that you're
blaming on other people take ownership of them, get them fixed, take ownership of them, get
them fixed, take ownership of make some moves, take ownership of them, look what you can do different.
That's what you have to do. Jack, so. Next question. In your recent book,
Leadership Strategy and Tactics mentioned establishing trustworthy relationships with
superiors, you speak of performance and compelling tasks. You're stating tasks. Oh,
completing tasks. Yes. Performance and completing tasks. You stated, boss wants me to fill out some
extra paperwork. I'll do it. Boss needs me to cover a shift for someone else on the team. I've got
it. Boss has a nasty low reward mission that needs executing. I'm all over it, page 40 and 50.
How does this separate you from being a yes man, especially when being a yes man is looked
upon so negatively these days? What are your thoughts? Yes, so there's actually maybe he hasn't
gotten there, but there's a whole section in the book that's called the S-Man. And why you don't
want to be a yes man? Because if you're a yes man, you don't push back when a situation requires
there to be pushed back. So, read a little bit more, but to make it quite simple,
being a yes man is saying yes to everything regardless of whether it's a good idea or not.
Building relationships and establishing a good communication and a good rapport with your
superior is totally different than being a yes man. Part of it is saying yes, because if you resist
everything that they say to you, they don't really think they don't really value your opinion. They
just know that you're just a no man, no we can't do no can't, you're your Mr. Negative.
Mr. A yes man is just going to do whatever. So what you do is you say yes when you can.
Some meanial tasks, as we talk about some extra paperwork, cool, I'll do it. Some some
cover shift for someone else's cool, I got it. I can do those things. Those are easy. They're
not impacting my team. We're good. Nasty, low reward project that needs to get done cool, I got it.
Let's go bring it. Bring it. I'm here. It's going to help the team. Awesome.
Oh, you want me to do something that's going to negatively affect the team and put massive amounts
of capital at jeopardy or put people in risk or put safety at risk. Do I want me to do that? Hold on,
boss. No. And I wouldn't be just no boss. I'm not doing it. But I go through the book. How you
actually approach those situations so that you're not a yes man. So when it comes to situations
that unfolds that you actually need to say no, you can say no and it gets listened to.
That's the difference. Leadership strategy, intacters get some. So when they're kind of,
so many of the questions, Ian leadership strategy and tactics, there's so many of the answers
that I'd given there are based on questions that I get asked all the time. And so really, so many
of the questions that I'm hearing now, I have the answer and leadership strategy and tactics.
I'm trying not to just say, well, refer to the book. It's 98. Oh, refer to the book page 64.
I'm trying not to do that. But just FYI, refer anyone that's out there. It's in there. Read more about it.
All right. Next question. I was hoping for some guy, kind of a similar question. Two.
But go on. Yes. Let's bring first some guy. I'm going to cut you off again. No, I just did that
for fun. I thought I did it. Anyway, I was hoping for some guidance on how to play the game
with a situation at work. I work in an aerospace machine shop. I'm doing this apprenticeship to be a
machinist. Machinist, machinist, machinist. This means that I'm supposed to get specific types of
on the job training with a set number of hours each with a set number of hours each. Okay. I go to school.
Once we're going to re-roll this thing, huh? No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm going to roll it. Yeah,
hey, you know, I'm a man. I'm a man. I'm a man. I'm a man. I'm a man. Decern kind of what he's asking at the end of the day.
Anyway, set numbers are normally you get a little sensitive if you make some mistakes. I
am just going to take this from the top. But my whole life is at one weakness. Take so put
in. Come on. It's an expression. Anyway, I go to school once a week to supplement it. The problem is
they won't give me any work that feels those designations. I'm doing my best at the
menial paperwork they've had had me on for a while without complaint. It's a real problem, though.
When I'm paying out of pocket for this tuition, they come with the program. Every month spent,
not getting required training ads to the five years it takes to complete the OJT on the job training.
How do I get them to move me where I'm supposed to be? Do I just continue to do the best at what
they give me? I'm going to accept the loss of time and money. Yeah, so you can remember the book
that I caught me of leadership humble, not passive. So this guy is being humble playing the game.
Hey, I'll do the medial paperwork. I'll all work these extra hours. I'll do these things that
don't really help me. He's playing the game and he's being humble, right? But he's also it sounds like
being passive, meaning he needs to up his assertiveness to say, hey, listen, hey, hey, boss, I just
want to let you know. I put together this spreadsheet of what I've actually get to get accomplished.
And here's the things that I want to get done and I know I'm trying to knock out all the
stuff and I'm here to support the team. But I also need to get these things done. Can you help me
get these things scheduled so that I can be more value to you and the team? So yeah, you build the
relationship through playing the game. You build the relationship by giving support wherever you can,
but at the same time, that doesn't mean that you just roll over and never stand up for yourself.
That's not what we're talking about here. The difference is you're not building a relationship just
so you can take care of yourself, right? That's different. That means I'm just looking out for me.
You're building a relationship so that you can move down the right path, which by the way is going to
make you more a bigger asset to the team. So it's a win-win situation. Make sure you build that
relationship and then talk to them about what is you're trying to get done, why you're trying to get
it done? And that way we move forward down the path. And by the way, if they're like shut up and just
do this paperwork or shut up, we're not going to help you. Cool. Maybe we need to find a place that
has a little bit better opportunity for me and I'll start to float that out there. Humble, not passive.
I remember a long time ago you'd say, you used this word efficient. Be more efficient,
rather than make it easier for me, even though they're essentially the same thing in certain
circumstances where it's like, oh yeah, this will make it easier for me to become an asset,
kind of thing. But for whatever reason maybe just the way that sounds. Yeah, sounds like you're
not for yourself, man. Yeah. Yeah. But if you say, it'll get me to be a more valuable asset in a
more efficient way. Who could say no to that? Because what company doesn't want efficiency? No,
we want to take the hard road. We want to do things that don't make any sense. We want to do things
inefficient way. No. Yes, efficiency is important. Not only in GJ2, not only in judo, but in business
of life. Yes, sir. All right. So there's one more little topic that I wanted to bring up. And
really it's another question that I got at Jockel Live and I got this
question or a version of this question a couple of different times and they all, they all.
Couple different versions of this question but the same question. And the question is,
it's something like this, something along the lines of, I've been pretty successful at this point
in my life. And I'm having trouble finding the motivation to take it to the next level.
So you know, it's like people say, oh, so you know, you make decent money, yep, but we got,
yeah, we're doing really well and you're working out, yep, I'm going to healthy, yep,
I'm good, yeah, you're family's taking care of you out, I'm good, good, good time with my family.
But you're not able to like get the extra workout, you're not, you know, you're skipping some days,
you're not eating great, you're not making the calls that you need to make, you're not expanding your
eyes and that's what's going on, right? And so that's what we're getting at. We get someone that's sort of
in a good spot, kind of across the board, right? Kind of in a good spot across the board. And so I'd
kind of establish that fact that they're in a good spot across the board. And then I'd say,
but it sounds like you're in a good spot across the board, are you happy with that and are you
comfortable with where you're at? And the answer would be no. And then I'd say, are you sure?
And then it's a yam, sure, I want to do more. And then I said, that's a lie. That's a lie. That's a lie,
because if you really weren't happy and you really wanted to improve your health even more
and you really wanted to improve your financial situation more. And you really wanted to just
broadly improve your life, then you wouldn't have any problem at all finding the discipline.
The discipline would actually find you. That's where I'm at. You want to know why people
go, you don't see pretty much, you want to know why? Because this one finds me, because I know
I know I can do more. And I want to do more. And I know I'm not happy or I'm at a comfortable
where I'm at. So if you're telling yourself, no, I'm not happy where you're at, then I'm going
to tell you that's actually a lie. You are comfortable. You are comfortable, because if you
weren't comfortable, then it would drive you the discipline would show up. Now this is where
I kind of, I kind of have to go a little bit deeper. So what I just said, if you tell yourself
the truth, then you'll find discipline. The framework of discipline is the truth.
The framework of discipline is the truth. And I didn't do a good job when I got to ask this
question. I didn't do a good job of connecting all the dots because it actually is one level deeper.
It's one level deeper. It looks like this. If you're saying that you can't find discipline
and I'm telling you it's because that's because you are comfortable where you're at.
That is also a lie. That is also a lie. Look, telling yourself that
you don't need to get out of bed in the morning, telling yourself that you don't really need to
work out or you don't need to go harger or you don't need to do more in your job or be more
disciplined in the way that you live. If you tell yourself those things, that's actually a lie.
Because the fact of the matter is, think about this, the fact of the matter is that you're not
comfortable. You're not happy. You're not okay with where you're up because that's why you're asking
this question right now. You're asking this question because you know you can do more. You know
you can be more and that's the truth. That's the truth and it eats you up and it makes you
ask these questions, ask the question to me and ask the question to yourself and the answer is the truth.
You know it, I know it, we all know it that the framework of discipline is the truth.
If you tell yourself the truth, the real truth, the absolute categorical, unconditional,
unabated, unmersible truth. If you do that, you will find discipline.
Discipline equals freedom. Discipline is rooted in the truth. The truth will set you free.
And what does that calculus work out to? Discipline equals freedom. And I think that's
all I've got for tonight. So, echo Charles. It seems like we want the truth over here.
Yes. So that we can do more and we can be more. Is there anything that you know of
that helps reveal the truth to us? Yes, due to the facts never lie. When you make eye contact with
that guy who's little bit better than you, maybe bigger, maybe we'll give you a scenario where you
got to put out more effort that maybe you want to do that day when you make eye contact and then you
like look away. Oh, you mean pre-roll. Oh, there's like a scenario that could unfold but we haven't
connected eye contact for the role. It's like avoidance. Yeah, oh, everybody knows. That's one of
the many attempted lies that we sort of try to perpetuate in ourselves. Like, oh yeah, like, I'm good,
right? That's what people kind of. They want to be good at jujitsu, I think, you know, on the mat's,
you know Akbar? Sure, of course it did. Yeah. He's really sick jujitsu and he's super like hard to
roll with just because he's strong and wiring athletic and freaking good and doesn't stop. Yeah.
But I have like an unwritten rule with him no matter what 100%. If if either one of us wants to roll,
we roll. Yeah. Doesn't matter what's going on. If one of us wants to roll, we roll. Yeah. And most of
the time he wants to roll, I don't. And I roll them every time. Yeah. Yeah, that's how. And in that
kind, I mean, let's face it that like you have mixed emotions about those kind of, because you see
him and you're like, because you have it in your head, like you can't not roll with that person.
I have that with Noah, where if he's there, it's like, it's on. And he's like, I don't know if
man, he's been kind of working me recently. Yeah. So I say, oh man, I see him. I'm like,
I know this is going to be like a hard roll, but I can't not roll with him. Like that would
defeat the whole purpose of my existence here right now. If like, don't roll with them, you know,
roll with Noah for sure. And he's the same way. He's coming out you the whole time. He's freaking
awesome at you, Jitsu. Yeah. He's in good shape. He's strong. He's got, he's just got it. He's
just going to bring it. Yeah. He's got to be, he's like, that's the way it is. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So,
Noah, Akbar, like these guys that it's like, okay, if they weren't here, it would be an
easier day regardless. Well, I don't know. But not everyone's like that, you know. And actually
there can be guys who are like, even actually better than you, but you roll with them in it's like,
it's not this huge, like, it's not that like hard of a roll. You know, it's like there's just
different things. Yeah. But the lie that we can tell ourselves even though you're the only one
you're laying to everyone, every can see what you're doing. When you'd like do avoid that. Yeah.
Now, there are situations that unfold, then this is one that I do. So let's say I have an injury.
Right. Legitimate injury. I will, let's say a normal day for me is like, okay, I'm going to do
eight rounds. You know, eight, six minute rounds. Cool. That's normal. Like that's a good roll for me.
I had a good time. You know, whatever takes an hour, whatever. He's a minute rast. Whatever.
So, so maybe not. But anyways, if I'm injured, sometimes I got to be like, okay, I can only
do four rounds because then it's just odds that I'm going to re-enter some stupid. And I just,
I'm like, hey, what I try to do is tell people beforehand. So that way, I'm not being that guy.
Like, if you want to roll with me now, it's the time. Because in four rolls, maybe five.
Sure. You know, then I'm going to call it. Yeah. So it does happen. And I guess the reason that I'm
saying that is just to be like, well, I'm going to roll no matter what. If you're injured,
and like you know the deal, like when you're injured, you can, you can get lucky for like three
four rolls. And like, okay, I didn't tweak anything. We're good. It didn't get worse. That fourth
fifth roll, now you're six roll, you're tired. You're giving up a little bit more and all of a sudden,
that's when you get hurt. So just a little tail of caution. Yes, big time. And, you know,
one, it's easy kind of like when we're just sitting here, you know, not in the situation. It's
easy to be like, oh, yeah, you just, you just work around the injury. And if you got to get
caught in a submission, a towel, you know, it's not a submission that you're going to get. That's easy.
You hope that someone, if you've got a sore elbow, you hope that what hurts you is, oh, someone
puts an arm walk and you go, oh, tap early. Right. That's what you hope it is. What you don't hope
it is is you're rolling and turning and your arm gets caught in a bad spot. And now you re-indra.
Yeah. There's no tapping from that. That's just another injury. Yeah. So the way I mean,
what I had in my head was like, um, or, you know, your knee or whatever, whatever, whatever,
rib, whatever. And you're like, I'm just going to go like kind of little lighter, you know,
right? Exactly. You roll one round and then you roll one round with like, no, or something,
go light, no way, man. And it's, you can consciously be going, oh, yeah, I'm going to go light.
But start rolling. Yeah, just see how much you can remember to go light when you're, you know,
things can't compare to that. Whatever. Sure. You always say to me like, when you do a good
move to me and you say, uh, yeah, you sense furgents. Yeah, you say, that's a big victory for you.
You're my sense of urgency to increase and it's like the biggest W. Oh, yeah, because you're just so good.
And you say it to me too. Well, I don't say that. It's a big W, but I do say I recognize
what sense of urgency. You're all on TV. Anyway, when you're in the moment,
whether you can control it fully or not or whatever, I would say you just decrease the chance of
you staying safe as time goes on. Yes. You just, that's just like the numbers. Yeah,
like just like odds odds odds are made it through four rounds. I'm okay. Right. I'm walking off the
mat right now. Right. So that's like the opposite of a lie. You're like being so, so truthful with
yourself. You're like, hey, you know, and you're, and you're doing the right thing. The lie comes
when you're like, you're not injured. You're just maybe not feeling up to it. Maybe you're hung
over. I don't know. Maybe that you put, you know, a person. And then you say, well, you know,
I'm this or I'm sick or I'm this and you say that excuse whoever to yourself and then like
you avoid the whole rules. Yeah, I had Wes. Like I was trained and I was deep into some rounds
and Wes's and Wes was on the other mat and he comes over and Wes is a beast too. Like,
I mean, he's just strong and strategic to. It's awesome. And every time it's going to be a gut check.
And I'm like sit up against the wall. I'm done. And he's like, you want to get one? And I was like,
and I said, no, you know, I was like, no. And then I was like, bro, and then like 30 seconds went by.
And I was like, all right, bro. I'm sorry. That's just a week. Like, because I wasn't done yet.
I knew I wasn't done. There's times where I've been like, hey, no, I can't roll. Like, I've got a,
I'm, no, I'm done for the night. It's not smart for me to roll. I need to have discipline.
The more than anything else, right? Because you know, when you're injured, you're there,
it's like, you want to roll so bad. You feel like a caged animal. Just wanted to get on the
mats of justice. Yeah, pretty much any time you're there and you're not ruling injured. It's the worst
man working in my case, you know, filming whatever. Yeah. No, I mean, you can't. That's just how,
but yeah. But again, that's like the opposite of the lie. Like your, your truth is, is very,
how should I say strong? Like, you don't like the lie, like, hits you hard when you begin to lie to yourself.
You know, but some people, they can just roll with it, but everyone sees what you're doing.
Everybody, you know, or the guy who's tying his belt every 10 seconds, you know, like,
you know, basically what you're doing. Yeah, you're trying to perpetuate somewhere. Yeah. But the mats,
they don't lie. So that's why we think, GJJ is a positive thing. Sure, I think so.
It does expose our truth or maintain our truth. It's a good act, one system to be in. I think so.
You gotta be careful, like all ecosystems. But in that ecosystem, this is what we do care about.
What can you be? Yeah. You see what I'm saying? Yeah. Come on, we all check it out, like,
oh, like, put it this way. We don't want to be walking on with a second rate,
G, that's made in wherever, not here. Yeah. Yes. No, we don't. What do you want your G to say? Look,
I train GJJ too. I work hard. And I support this country and it's workers. Yes. That's what I want my
G to say. Yeah. There's only one G that says that. Yeah. But there's only one G that says that. Yeah.
And that's the origin G. And I think we all know that. You know, so yes, the question,
what do you do I get? One, I do GJ to when I start GJ to when I compete in GJ to you get an origin G.
Yes. You get an origin, Rashguard for the no-ghi scenarios set unfold. And then, since you can't
wear a G and a Rashguard in public, unless you're John Donner, her, the exeases represent that Rash.
Is he still represent the Rashguard super hardcore as far as I know, but no, he's definitely
so legit. We need to send him some Rashcarts. Anyways, if you're not John Donner, and you're going
to go out, you don't really want to wear G pants and a Rashguard, you can get other clothing
from origin made such as T shirts, jeans, sweatshirts, hoodies, what are you going to say? I think
sweatshirts and hoodies kind of covers it covers it. Okay, what are you going to say? You're going to
say jeans? Yeah. G jeans. Delta 68. Delta 68 are those out. Yeah. Yeah. We're working on that.
I can't. Hey, working on it. Hey, if you're working on it, you're working on it.
All good. I actually told Pete, let's put it. And I don't like to do this, but let's do the pre order
thing. So we can actually get the demand signal because people are demanding the Delta 68.
Yes, yeah. Because I talked them up because they are truly the greatest things I've ever put
on my legs. There you go. Also, joggers, those are not the greatest things I put on my legs. You know,
but we're not really for me. Not a jogger's kind of guy. Because you don't, well, yeah. I mean,
you know, fashionably speaking, yeah, that's not you. You know, that's kind of down there on your
list of priorities. So I get it right now. Those are just two things that I'm not really super
concerned. Although oddly enough, the comfort of the Delta 68 is one of the things that makes
them is very epic. Yeah. It's just like the cherry on top. If you came to Jockel Live, I was
wearing Delta 68. If you see me in public and I'm wearing jeans, they're Delta 68.
Jogging. There you go. Originmain.com is where. Also, supplements. These are important supplements.
Jolens. For your joints. Supplements for your joints. That's important. Try live. You can be the
strongest guy in the world. You should show. There's not working. Let me ask you this. Is this jacked up?
So a guy hit me up on social media and was like, hey, you're old. How do you, how do you
maintain? Like, how do you do this? And you know, I, there's one of those things, what was I
like? Well, do I just tell them like straight up, man? If you're not on joint warfare and acrylic oil,
you're just wrong. Like, step number one, get on joint warfare and acrylic oil. Seriously. Super
krill joint warfare. That's what you want to do. Now, the thing that I told them also is very
consistent. Right. I'm not one of those guys that takes three weeks off from doing anything and
then jumps back into the two squat. Like, no, I'm working out for all practical purposes. I'm
working out every single day. Now, is the occasions where life gets in the way? Sure. Yep. That's
what it's called a day off. That's why I don't take voluntary days off. But I'm telling you, if you
want to maintain like the activity at a high level and you're an older person, I mean, I'm only
48. I feel like I'm 21 or 22, maybe. Let's say 27. How about that? Sure. But joint warfare and
acrylic oil. Those are the supplements that you're specifically talking about right now. So,
I can't recommend them strongly enough. And I should have just told that guy, listen, be consistent,
work out, do a good job, warm up and take acrylic oil and joint warfare. But then you feel like,
oh, I'm just, you know, you don't even sell them as good as stuff like, bro, this is it. So I actually
did him a disservice. Yeah. Because that's true. When you go like every day in consistent, your body
started, you know, for lack of a better way of putting it in as far as details go. But you're
by just used to it. But at the same time, yeah, you know, like your joints are taking a meeting.
If you're pushing hard, which I am, which, yeah, I mean, why would I? I mean, I guess maybe there's
under some circumstance that's okay. But if you're pushing hard, yeah, you're joint's going to be like,
kind of taking some of the front. Yeah, for sure. You know, so yeah, if your joints can see in the
game, but it's like, yeah, well, no, more important. If you're joints can't stay in the game,
you're out of the game. Yes. That's the problem. Yeah, that's the, that's the, like, hey, you can be
big and strong. And your joints don't work, it doesn't matter. You're, it's only strong as your
weakest link. Make your weakest link. Your strongest link. Join Warfare and Krooel. Discipline,
discipline, powder form, awesome. If you need a can of a tasty beverage, that's actually good for you.
Get yourself some discipline. Go. RTD. Ready to deploy. Yes. Or drink with. Yeah, we prefer to play over here.
I think. I understand. Also, milk protein in the form of a dessert. Additional protein. I
don't know where you can stick. I get it. It's true. It's good. But you want the dessert with some
additional protein. Some to increase and improve your protein synthesis. Yeah.
Just got hit to that one. It's like when there's protein. Okay, so I was one of the guys who,
who, who, one of the many of us, who, you know what, you don't want to animal like window is?
Yeah, it's like after you work out, you got to certain amount of time. Yeah, you got to eat within. Yeah,
you got to eat the protein and take cake in in because that's when your body like kind of wants
to take it in. If you miss that window, it doesn't take as much in. So apparently,
that's not as much of a thing. From what I'm, bro science has been this green in the 1940.
Well, there's been controversy in the broscience world. No man, just a shift really.
A shift paradigm. A paradigm shift. The broscience world. So interesting.
So I come from someone that has a doctorate in broscience, echoed roles. You know, I'm
at least staying on this. So what do you think is the point? We can drink milk anytime.
There's another one we're really having. Milk at 9.48 at night when I'm like, you know what,
I want to surf right now. Cool. I'm going to have some milk. Yeah. Yeah, basically. Yeah. So it's more
about the protein rolling around in your system generally speaking. And you know, when your body
needs protein to rebuild muscle, boom, you got some protein already in there. Whether you take it in
20 minutes after you lift or if you know, you just sort of taking it in throughout the day.
Same thing goes for your children. They can take in protein at any time. They can also take
in poison sugar. But don't give them that, give them the protein to good stuff. War your kid
milk. And then get yourself some jocquoise tea, by the way. Which is as echoed, Charles likes to
point out organic. It is certified. Hi. I'm jocquoise, like organic certified tea salesman.
Yep. Definitely. Who would have fought? Look, it's not about the organic. It's about having an
8,000 pound deadlift, which is 100% guaranteed. Double pine. Double pine pussy. They're tested.
Get some. And by the way, all these items are available right now at the vitamin shop.
So you probably, hopefully, have a vitamin shop near you. You can just go down there and pick up
any of these items that you want, which is pretty awesome. Go check it out. By the way, this Friday,
February 8th in San Diego, California at the vitamin shop. We're going to be there. Is that Friday or Saturday?
Sorry Saturday. Saturday February. Yeah. Saturday February 8th. We're going to be there. We're going to be there.
We're going to be there. We're going to be there. We're going to be there. We're going to be there live.
Me, you, JP, and Dakota, my deck savage. Now, DAX savages. Actually, we'll be there. Come on down
and hang out. People are like, will you sign books? Yeah, I'll sign whatever you want.
Yeah. I mean, within reason. With it means I mean, and by that, I only mean like, I'm not signing
you know, body parts. But apart. Yeah. Well,
motorplac some four. Certainly. That's body parts. I'm not going to sign. Yeah. I think it's good.
So there you go. Skin or domain.com. Yes, or domain.com for all this stuff. Good stuff. By the way,
also, joc was a store. It's called jocos store. That's where you can get the deaf
course stuff, the discipline equals freedom stuff. The good quote unquote good stuff. When I mean
stuff, that's T-shirts, hoodies, lightweight and heavy, rash guards, more rash guards,
representative of the path directly. While you're doing the jujitsu. I saw people on the
podium represent me. So I'm a three-cently. Oh yeah, on that one, yeah, we had a represent on that one.
Appreciate everyone that represents the path. Big time. Every podcast and the deaf core.
So yeah, competition. But yeah, a hat's on there as well. And cool stuff on there. We
like something. Get something. Represent when you're on the path. Jocos store.com. Also,
subscribe to the podcast. If you haven't already, we're, we don't know if that's important.
Is it important? It's important. It's not not important. Overall, we're saying yes, it's important.
So do it. Subscribe. Subscribe. If you want. So good. It's beneficial. If you're listening,
as you should subscribe. Yeah. That's my opinion. Yeah. Very good. I don't forget that we also have
the grounded podcast. Yes. Where we talk about life jujitsu. We're looking like we're probably going
to make some more of those in the very near future. War your kid podcast. That is the best podcast
that a child could listen to. Am I biased? Maybe. Am I right? Absolutely. And don't forget about
war your kid soap. And I am overjoyed doing for me that we have a new soap out from IrishOach Ranch.com.
It's got anti bacterial anti microbial. Right.
Colonial. Well, anyways, it's got really good stuff. If you're dirty, especially dirty
in the tents of jujitsu, where you've got little creepy crawlies trying to get into your skin,
then you can get something that we made young and it's called killer soap.
Good IrishOach Ranch.com. So you can get yourself some killer soap and
stay clean. Stay clean. Of course. Also YouTube channel. We have YouTube channel for the video
version of this podcast and some excerpts on there. You'll share these excerpts. Go ahead. Do it.
If you're boss needs to hear this. Don't do it like that. I'm just saying if you sort of just
anyway, good stuff on there. I think enhanced stuff as well. You can see,
jocko and his things are exploding. Things are catching on fire. Sometimes things are cracking open.
Synchronization with my words. Yeah. And music. Chelos and whatnot. Yes. The last haven't
heard echoes and enhanced videos. You may not know it. Echo is a chelo enthusiast. I, well,
chelos, I replaced me one of his videos when the chelos kicks it. I didn't look.
Anyway, videos on there. Yes. So you've got YouTube channel. Yeah. What's it called?
Jocco podcast. Jocco podcast. What's it called? The thorn. We also have something called
Psychological Warfare. And I got a great piece of information, a great suggestion from someone
some trooper out there just made a great suggestion. This suggestion was when you talk about
psychological warfare, you should describe it as a little psychological eater.
Well, as soon as I said it, I was like, you get credit. Credit. So yes, if you need a little
psychological eater to help you get over some moment of weakness, we'll guess what we got
something for you. It's called Psychological Warfare. It's on iTunes, Google Play, other MP3 platforms.
If you need a visual, hitter, then go to flipsidecampus.com where the code of my
or speaking of is making visual representations of the path that you can hang on your wall on your
ceiling in your doorway. Keep you on the path. That's what you need to do. Got some books,
leadership strategy and tactics. The most recent, the answer to the answer to every leadership
question that I've been asked on this podcast, that I get asked all the time. So leadership
strategy and tactics field manual, everyone that got it, thank you, made it number one on a
bunch of different lists, which was awesome. And I was super stoked. It was especially awesome.
If you're in the literary ecosystem, then you go, oh, number one, everyone else doesn't care.
So I'm kind of got one foot in that door because there's a bunch of people that I work with that
in the literary world because that's what that's what it is, right? You write a book. You're in the
literary world. Yes. So that ecosystem. So you guys even though none of you care,
you all propelled me to the number one in that ecosystem that anyone that's outside of the
literary world doesn't care about. People say, how do you stay humble? Guess what? No one cares
about this stuff. That's how leadership strategy and tactics got a bunch of kids books,
way the warrior kid, one, two and three, Mikey and the dragons for that little or kid,
discipline equals freedom, field manual, which people just take pictures of that and just post,
just a picture of the cover of the book, which I'm always like credit. So leadership strategy
and tactics is field manual, too. The first field manual was just pointy because freedom, field manual.
The audio version of that is on iTunes Amazon music, Google Play and other MP3 platforms. And then
of course, it all started with extreme ownership and the dichotomy leadership, which I wrote with
my brother, Lave Babin, about the lessons that we learned in combat and how you can use them in
business and life. We got EF online, which is leadership training online and what this is is
a supplement. Actually, it doesn't even have to be a supplement. It could be the whole meal.
If this is what you can do, then you want leadership training, go to EF online. If you need it
inside your company, inside your business, inside your team, you can contact echelon front.com.
That's my leadership consultancy echelon front.com. What we do is solve problems through
leadership. We got some musters coming up up. We got, well, all the ones that we've done
I'm sold out. The ones that are coming up on deck are Orlando, Florida, Dallas, Texas,
Phoenix Arizona and Phoenix Arizona. Go to extreme ownership.com for those, all the events that
we've ever done have sold out. So if you want to come, go to extreme ownership.com early so that you can
get some. And last thing we now have EF Overwatch and EF Legion. EF Overwatch aimed at
executive leadership taking folks that were in the military leaders, senior leaders in the military
and placing them into civilian companies so that they can help that company move forward.
That's our executive leadership placement firm. We also have EF Legion, which is front-line
troops and front-line leaders. So if you've been in the military, if you're a veteran and you want
to find your next mission, if you're a senior leader, cool, go to EF Overwatch. If you're a junior
leader, go to EF Legion and companies that are looking for junior leaders or executive leaders,
you can do the same thing. EF Legion.com or EF Overwatch.com, these are people that understand
the principles that we teach and kind of apply them inside your business. And if you have not heard
enough of my exceedingly slow talking and ludicrously serious tone, and you haven't had enough
of Echos marginally applicable metaphors. If you can't get enough of those two things,
we'll guess what, you can get more. We are available on the inner webs on Twitter, Instagram,
and on that Facebook. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Willink and to final word here.
Thank you all for listening to podcast. A podcast that exists thanks to your
support. Thanks for listening, spreading the word, telling your friends,
thanks for getting some deaf core or some origin gear, all of which support this podcast. And of
course, thanks to all the service members out there in uniform who protect the very freedoms that
make this podcast possible. Also to our police and law enforcement firefighters,
paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers, correctional officers, board of patrol, secret service,
all the first responders. And I saw a bunch of military members. I saw a bunch of first responders
at all the Jocca lives and I appreciate you coming out. And I want to say thank you for providing
an environment where we can live our lives as we see fit. And to everyone else out there,
remember to tell yourself the truth. Remember to tell yourself the truth. You know what that means.
The truth is you need to do more. The truth is you need to be more to reach your fullest
maximum capacity and capability as a human being. And if you tell yourself that truth,
you will find discipline. And if you find discipline, you will find freedom.
So do not lie to yourself. And instead get out there and get after it.
And until next time, this is echo and jocco out.